
Econ 390A; Homework#01 ; 

Total Point 100; Submission date: 02/18/2019, 5 pm.; submission mode: email your R-script file (no word, pdf or text file pls) to masud@niu.edu
You may work in group and submit your work separately(maximum 3 persons in a group)

Part A: Basics of R
Q1.What is RGui and R studio (max 2 sentences)? Why do we use R-Studio(max 3 sentences)? Please open your Rstudio and create a new R script file. check your current working directory 
and set your new working directory. Clearly mention what commands you will use to do so.
How many sub-windows you have on your R studio and what are their names.
Q2. Use the save button to save your new R-script file to your directory (give a file name to it something like YOUR_first_NAME_zid.R);
write some comments at the top of the script indicating what the script is for (e.g., #“this is my homework01 answer for econ 390A course, my(our) zid is, my group member ....”), 

Q3. Create a numeric vector 'Myvec1' with 30 elements using c() or seq(). 

Q4.Create a character vector 'Myvec2' with five names elements(such as Eagles,Patriots, Broncos,Seahawks,Ravens) 

Q5. Create a numeric vector called 'Earnings'(for five numerical values) whose elements contain the names of five superbowl teams you mentioned in 'Myvec2', 
where the names of each element correspond to the names of those teams. Create a pie chart using their earnings and names(both 2D and 3D).

Q6. Create a vector (with 15 elements) and store values as vec1. Now transform the vec1 into a matrix(name it as myMat)with 3 rows and 5 columns.To answer this question please use nrow & ncol command.
Now extract the following elements:
(i) element located on third row and second column, (ii) all element in second column (iii) all elements in second and fifth coulmn (iv) all elements located in second row
 

Q7. Create three vectors v1, v2 and v3 ( must have the same number of elements for v1, v2 and v3). Next, transform these vectors into two matrices using both cbind() and rbind().

Q8. Use logical operations to get R to agree that “five plus eight equals ten” is FALSE. 

Q9.Create a variable called 'Hotdog' whose value corresponds to the price of Hotdog you’ve eaten in the last week. Or something equally same. 
Now create another varible 'sales_tax' whose value corresponds to 15% of the price of pizza. Now add these two values and store your result as 'myCost'. 
I assume the utility you enjoyed was 50 utils. So create a third variable 'myUtility' whose value is 50. 
Use logical operations to check whether your myUtility is equal to your myCost or not.

Part B: Distribution and plotting with R; 


Q1.Write the command to import the drive data (csv one) on R studio. Type a command to look at the first and last few observations, structure and summary statistics of your data. 

Q2. Draw as plot of age against rt_time1. Customise your plot, such as give it a title, x-axis and y-axis labels, and you may put nice color of your choices.

Q3. Draw box plots for age, broken down by distractor. Make it nicer by giving a title, various colors, xlab, ylab and distractors names.

Q4. Draw a histogram showing the distribution of the errors_time2 (number of errors made at the second test)

Q5. Import the drive data (xlsx one) on R studio and save it to your directory as a csv file as "MyDrive".
Q6. Install a package called "quantmod" onto your R-studio and call your installed package. Import US GDP and Unemployment data using source "FRED". 
Check the first and last 15 elements of your data.Save your GDP and unemployment data as a csv file to your directory. (hints: at the end of lecture one, pdf file)









